\input texinfo
@setfilename SmartCalc_manual
@settitle SmartCalc_v2.0

@copying
Made by Morfinov on June 2023
@end copying

@titlepage
@title SmartCalc Guide
@vskip 
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top SmartCalc_v2.0
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* General information:: This section provides common information about calculator.
* Arithmetic operations:: This section provides information about the list of implemented arithmetic operations
* Math function:: This section provides information about the list of implemented mathematical functions.
* Graph:: This section provides information about the possibility of plotting functions.
* Credit calculator:: This section provides information about the possibility of a credit calculator.
@end menu

@node General information
@chapter General information

This project implement's an extended version of the usual calculator, which can be found in the standard applications of each operating system in the C++ programming language using MVC pattern.
In its core it using Edsger Dijkstra algorithm for converting expressions (including functions) from infix to Reverse Polish notation.
In addition to basic arithmetic operations such as add/subtract and multiply/divide, it have the ability to calculate arithmetic expressions by following the order, as well as some mathematical functions (sine, cosine, logarithm, etc.).
Besides calculating expressions, it also support the use of the x variable and the graphing of the corresponding function.
As other improvements a credit calculator is implement.

@node  Arithmetic operations
@chapter  Arithmetic operations

Arithmetic operations that are implemented in the calculator:
@enumerate
@item
Brackets - (a + b)
@item
Addition - a + b
@item
Subtraction - a - b
@item
Multiplication - a * b
@item
Division - a / b
@item
Power - a ^ b
@item
Modulus - a mod b
@item
Unary plus - +a
@item
Unary minus - -a
@end enumerate
Calculator can calculate arbitrary bracketed arithmetic expressions in infix notation with substitution of the value of the variable x as a number.
The calculation must be done after you complete entering the calculating expression and press the = symbol.

@node Math function
@chapter Math function

The following mathematical functions are implemented in the calculator:
@enumerate
@item
Computes cosine - cos(x)
@item
Computes sine - sin(x)
@item
Computes tangent - tan(x)
@item
Computes arc cosine - acos(x)
@item
Computes arc sine - asin(x)
@item
Computes arc tangent - atan(x)
@item
Computes square root - sqrt(x)
@item
Computes natural logarithm - ln(x)
@item
Computes common logarithm - log(x)
@end enumerate
The calculation must be done after you complete entering the calculating expression and press the = symbol.

@node Graph
@chapter Graph

The calculator implements the possibility of plotting functions.
In order to build a graph, enter the expression in top box and click the "Make Graph" button.
The graph will appear.

@node Credit calculator
@chapter Credit calculator

The calculator has a special mode of operation: Credit Calculator.

The credit calculator window contains the following fields:
@enumerate
@item
Total credit amount - the desired credit amount.
@item
Term - set in months or yesrs.
@item
Interest Rate - the desired interest rate.
@item
Type - define type of payments: annuity or differentiated.
@end enumerate
Output Fields: 
@enumerate
@item
Monthly payment - amount of payment for each month.
@item
Overpayment on credit - summary overpayment of credit.
@item
Total payment -  total you will pay to pay of this credit.
@end enumerate

Press 'Calculate' to see the result.

@bye